README.md, before:

# Editor

This is an unofficial plugin editor for Endless Sky. It is continuously updated, and supports the latest release of Endless Sky! You can download it [here](https://github.com/quyykk/plugin-editor/releases/latest).

Features:

- Supports galaxies, systems, planets, hazards, effects, fleets, governments, ships, outfits, shipyards, and outfitters.
- A powerful map editor!
- An outfitter to easily create ship loadouts!
- A ship arena to easily test ships against one another.

It is the successor of the old [plugin editor](https://github.com/quyykk/editor).

## Screenshots

![map editor showcase](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85879619/192547576-d65f99b5-32dc-4bb6-bfad-7814e7028f9a.png)

![system view showcase](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85879619/192548174-94d40f19-ba7b-4be7-b196-5f564efd8b3e.png)


## Build instructions

Clone this repo with submodules:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/quyykk/plugin-editor --recursive
```

This guide assumes you have at least CMake 3.21.

Install the following, depending on your OS:

<details>
<summary>Windows</summary>
If you're planning on using Visual Studio, make sure to install the [clang/LLVM components](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/clang-support-msbuild) and the CMake component as well.

If you want to use MinGW (select the **MSVCRT runtime**; get it from [here](https://winlibs.com/#download-release)), I'd recommend using Visual Studio Code as IDE, because it provides pretty good CMake integration and MinGW support (including debugging).
</details>
<details>
<summary>MacOS</summary>
Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh). Once it is installed, use it to install the tools you will need:

```
$ brew install cmake ninja pkg-config nasm
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>Debian distros</summary>
```
g++ cmake ninja-build pkg-config libgl1-mesa-dev libxmu-dev libxi-dev libglu1-mesa-dev tar zip unzip curl
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>Fedora distros</summary>
```
gcc-c++ cmake ninja-build mesa-libGL-devel autoconf libtool libXext-devel mesa-libGLU-devel
```
</details>

A lot of IDEs have built-in CMake integration (VS, VSCode, CLion, ...). For those, you can simply open the folder in the IDE and build.

There are a couple of presets to choose from before you build. Select the appropriate one. For example, if you want to build with MinGW select the `mingw` preset. (You can execute `cmake --preset help` to get a list of presets that are available).

If you want to build from the command line:

```bash
$ cmake --preset <preset>
$ cmake --build --preset <preset>-debug
```

where `<preset>` is your chosen preset. You can also specify `release` instead of `debug` to get a release build. The built files are located in the `build/` folder.

Commit message:

This is definitely not continuously updated

README.md, after:

# Editor

This is an unofficial plugin editor for Endless Sky. It is poorly updated and may support most features in Endless Sky version 0.10.10. Be very careful! You can download it [here](https://github.com/warp-core/endless-sky-plugin-editor/releases/latest).

Features:

- Supports galaxies, systems, planets, hazards, effects, fleets, governments, ships, outfits, shipyards, and outfitters.
- A powerful map editor!
- An outfitter to easily create ship loadouts!
- A ship arena to easily test ships against one another.

It is the successor of the old [plugin editor](https://github.com/quyykk/editor).

## Screenshots

![map editor showcase](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85879619/192547576-d65f99b5-32dc-4bb6-bfad-7814e7028f9a.png)

![system view showcase](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/85879619/192548174-94d40f19-ba7b-4be7-b196-5f564efd8b3e.png)


## Build instructions

Clone this repo with submodules:

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/quyykk/plugin-editor --recursive
```

This guide assumes you have at least CMake 3.21.

Install the following, depending on your OS:

<details>
<summary>Windows</summary>
If you're planning on using Visual Studio, make sure to install the [clang/LLVM components](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/build/clang-support-msbuild) and the CMake component as well.

If you want to use MinGW (select the **MSVCRT runtime**; get it from [here](https://winlibs.com/#download-release)), I'd recommend using Visual Studio Code as IDE, because it provides pretty good CMake integration and MinGW support (including debugging).
</details>
<details>
<summary>MacOS</summary>
Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh). Once it is installed, use it to install the tools you will need:

```
$ brew install cmake ninja pkg-config nasm
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>Debian distros</summary>
```
g++ cmake ninja-build pkg-config libgl1-mesa-dev libxmu-dev libxi-dev libglu1-mesa-dev tar zip unzip curl
```
</details>
<details>
<summary>Fedora distros</summary>
```
gcc-c++ cmake ninja-build mesa-libGL-devel autoconf libtool libXext-devel mesa-libGLU-devel
```
</details>

A lot of IDEs have built-in CMake integration (VS, VSCode, CLion, ...). For those, you can simply open the folder in the IDE and build.

There are a couple of presets to choose from before you build. Select the appropriate one. For example, if you want to build with MinGW select the `mingw` preset. (You can execute `cmake --preset help` to get a list of presets that are available).

If you want to build from the command line:

```bash
$ cmake --preset <preset>
$ cmake --build --preset <preset>-debug
```

where `<preset>` is your chosen preset. You can also specify `release` instead of `debug` to get a release build. The built files are located in the `build/` folder.
